# Solution deployment recommendations for cloud environments

When deploying HPE Service Activator solutions on cloud environments, you need to consider several cloud-specific recommendations. In particular for deployment options, use the following arguments:

- `-conditionalDB`: This means that database-related assets in a solution are deployed only if the solution has not been deployed before (on any cluster node), or if the deployed version is inferior to the one being deployed. You cannot normally use different deployment options for different cluster nodes where you are deploying the solution. Therefore, the traditional approach of using different options for the first node and the rest of the nodes does not work.
- `-createTables`/`-writeDMversion`: If the solution contains inventory beans, use `-createTables` to create the corresponding database tables as usual. Table creation will automatically be skipped if the solution is already deployed, so basically, the first node reaching the deployment stage creates tables and the rest will skip it. If the solution does not contain inventory beans and you do not need `-createTables`, then specify `-writeDMversion` to ensure that the solution version is stored in the database so that flags, such as `-conditionalDB`, still work as expected.
- `-overwriteAllOnConflict`: Depending on your work flow and solution contents, you may also need to use some of the overwrite-related arguments. In particular for HPE SD solutions, it is recommended to use `-overwriteAllOnConflict`.
- `-rollingUpgrade`: If you are using rolling upgrade, you need to specify `-rollingUpgrade` for custom deployed solutions. If you want to build an image that can be deployed with or without rolling upgrade, you can control this using an environment variable. Of course, your custom solutions must support rolling upgrade to make use of this feature. Check the HPE Service Director documentation for more details on rolling upgrade and the current limitations.

For more details on deployment options, see section _Solution Separation and the Deployment Manager_ from the HPE Service Activator product documentation set.
